Banking Data Analytics:
Project Requirements Document (PRD)
Phase 1: Customer Insights & Demographics (The Marketing Hub)
Objective: Understand our customer base to improve regional targeting.
Q1.Provide a master list of all customers, including their full names and account balances for all active accounts.

SELECT CONCAT(firstname, " ", lastname) AS FullName

Q2.The Marketing team needs to identify "High-Value Borrowers." List customers with loan amounts exceeding $50,000.



Q3.For a regional audit, show all transactions alongside the customer names.



Q4.Track growth: Which customers joined the bank/opened accounts after 2020?



Q5.Who is our most loyal customer? Display the full name of the customer who joined the bank first.



Q6.Focus on the West Coast: Show all transactions made specifically by customers in California.



Q7.Identify "Multi-Product" users: List customers who hold more than one account.



Q8.Market Research (Texas): Display all loans taken by customers residing in Texas.



Q9.Risk vs. Reward: Show account balances alongside the customer’s credit score.



Q10.Product Performance: List all transactions specifically performed against Savings accounts.



Phase 2: Management Information Systems (MIS) Reporting
Objective: Generate high-level aggregations for the Executive Dashboard.
Q11.What is our total liquidity per account type?



Q12.Provide a breakdown of our customer footprint by State.



Q13.What is the average loan size we provide for each loan category?



Q14.Identify the "stress test" limit: What is the maximum transaction amount recorded per channel?



Q15.Which cities are our most active transaction hubs? (Total amount per city).



Q16.Identify popular products: Show account types that have at least 5 active accounts.



Q17.Credit Quality: Find states where the average credit score of residents is above 700.



Q18.Portfolio Concentration: What is the total loan amount issued per state?



Q19.Channel Usage: Find the number of transactions occurring per channel (ATM, Online, etc.).



Q20.Regional Wealth: Find the highest single account balance recorded in each state.



Phase 3: Data Transformation & Profiling
Objective: Standardize data and create "Derived Attributes" for the CRM system.
Q21.For a masked report, show only the first 3 characters of customer last names.



Q22.Round all loan interest rates to one decimal place for the annual report.



Q23.Generate a "Customer ID Badge" using initials derived from their names.



Q24.Segmentation: Categorize customers into Credit Tiers based on their scores.



Q25.Ticket Sizing: Create a transaction size category (e.g., Small, Medium, Large) based on amount.



Q26.Risk Profiling: Create a "Loan Risk Level" column based on the total loan amount.



Phase 4: Advanced Analytical Deep-Dives
Objective: Find outliers and performance gaps.
Q27.Identify "Elite" customers whose credit score is above the overall bank average.



Q28.Which accounts are "Over-Funded"? (Balance > average balance).



Q29.Find the specific customers who hold the highest single loan amount in the bank.



Q30.Identify "Abnormal Activity": Find transactions significantly greater than the average transaction value.



Q31.Which customers are borrowing more than the average borrower?



Q32.Regional Outliers: Find customers whose loan amount is greater than the average for their specific state.



Q33.Product Outliers: Find accounts where the balance exceeds the average for that specific account type.



Q34.Identify "High-Volume" transactors: Customers whose total transaction sum exceeds the overall average.



Q35.Find "Heavy-User" accounts that have more transactions than the average account.



Q36.State Champions: Find customers whose credit score is the highest in their respective state.



Q37.Show total transaction amount per account.



Q38.Display the Top 5 customers by total transaction value.



Q39.Report the average loan amount per state using a nested summary.



Q40.Filter for account balances that are greater than the average balance 



Q41.Identify "High-Value Cities": Cities where the total transaction value exceeds $5,000.

Phase 5: Relationship & Churn Analysis (The Retention Team)
Objective: Cross-reference products and identify gaps in the customer journey.
Q42.Unified Customer View: Combine a list of all customers appearing in either Accounts or Loans using Set operators.



Q43.Intersection Report: Retrieve Customer IDs that exist in both Accounts and Loans tables.



Q44.Cross-Sell Opportunity: Find customers who have an account but have never taken a loan.



Q45.Product Gap: Identify customers who have loans but lack a Checking account.



Q46.List the top 10 highest account balances in the system.



Q47.Identify the 5 customers with the lowest credit scores for the "Credit Repair" program.



Q48.Provide a log of the 10 most recent transactions.



Q49.Show the Top 7 largest loan amounts currently on the books.



Q50.Rank the top customers based on their transaction totals.
